BOY: Simon Magus,
was a magician
and a sorcerer...
...in... Um...
FATHER BRENNAN:
In Sumeria.
And what happened
to Simon Magus, Bartolo?
Jesus' disciples
performed miracles.
When Simon Magus
saw the miracles,
he offered Peter
gold for God's powers.
And how did
Peter respond...
...John Rossi?
Stand up!
Answer my question,
John Rossi.
That's not my name.
You and all
the other bastards
lucky enough to be here,
children of sin,
spawn of the damned,
are all named for saints.
Saints who are disciplined,
saints who are chaste.
You are named
for John Baptist Rossi,
a Capuchin priest
who gave away
all his possessions.
A man who had nothing,
like you.
Now what is your name,
you ungrateful cur?
(WHIPPING)
FATHER BRENNAN:
Your name, boy!
Have you lost
your tongue?
What is your name?
(WHISPERING)
All the girls
will remain locked
in their dormitory
and no food
will be served
to any boy
until you acknowledge
your namesake before God.
(BANGING)
BOYS: Food! Food! Food!
Food! Food! Food! Food!
(BANGING STOPS)
(BOYS WHISPERING)
(BOYS GASP)
(CHEERING)
(BOYS GIGGLE)
(MUTTERING)
TEMPLAR: Yes. Yes.
They should name you
Simon Magus,
the magician.
No. Simon... Templar.
Agnes!
TEMPLAR: Agnes!
What are you doing?
When they catch you,
they'll cane you.
Won't happen,
'cause we're
leaving tonight,
this hearty brotherhood,
on a crusade.
That's why
I risked everything,
Agnes, my love,
to bid you farewell.
I can't leave you behind
without a kiss, can I?
Hey, watch this.
(CLANG)
NUN: We've lost
some girls!
The girls are missing!
There are girls missing!
BOY: Come on, boys!
Hurry up!
BOY: Come on.
Come on. Hurry.
Wait, John Rossi.
My kiss.
(BARKING)
There he is!
Go on! Get him!
(SCREAMING)
TEMPLAR ON TAPE:
October 3rd.
Entering foyer
of Tretiak industries.
Heavy security
on elevators.
Guards in uniform.
Elevator to vault
on 26th floor requires
separate pass key.
(SIGHS)
Maybe use stairs.
No traffic there.
October 4th.
Personal tidbits.
Tretiak's former partner
died suddenly in 1995.
It left Tretiak
as sole owner
of gas and oil empire.
Tretiak's first son
killed in car crash
five years ago.
Who are you?
Vehicle was driven
by younger son Ilya,
now 27.
Wife now lives in Geneva
following assassination
attempt in 1996.
(IN RUSSIAN ACCENT)
I am... Ivanovanovitch.
October 5th.
Ilya spent most of today
in Café Eldorado
with bandido buddies.
Gangster rap, coffee,
flirting with teenage girls.
Small firearms in coats,
machine pistols in cars.
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
(CROWD CHANTING)
MAN ON P.A.: There were
three great empires
that dominated the world
both culturally
and militarily,
(INDISTINCT)
Rome, Constantinople,
and Russia.
All three have fallen.
Only one can be restored
and only one man
can restore it:
Ivan Petrovich Tretiak!
(CHEERING)
Friends...countrymen,
Russians!
(CHEERING)
TRETIAK: You people
here in this room
are the cream of Russia,
and the whole nation
is listening with us.
But why do you all
listen to me rave?
Set aside my oil company,
forget about
my best-selling book,
and all I am
is a lunatic
haunted by the fantasy
of an empire
that reclaims
her former might,
her former size.
(APPLAUSE)
All I am is a poet
spinning rhymes
of a Russia
not cut off at the knees,
but armed to the teeth.
TRETIAK: Not ridiculed,
but revered.
(APPLAUSE)
No! More than revered!
Feared!
(CHEERING)
TRETIAK: But who am I
to dazzle you
with this dream?
All I've done is...
How does it look
for the leader's son
to walk out
when the leader speaks?
You'd prefer
the leader's son
to piss his pants
on live TV? Hmm?
TRETIAK: And still
the people
freeze to death!
TEMPLAR: I love this country.
(CLICK)
(SINGING IN RUSSIAN)
(FILTERED BREATHING)
(BEEPING)
(BEEP)
(WHIRRING AND CLICKING
(CLUNK)
(BEEPS)
(TAPS CANE)
(ILYA SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
TEMPLAR:
(IN AUSTRALIAN ACCENT)
I don't speak Russian.
In that case, stand up,
put your hands
behind your head,
and turn around slowly.
Wrong place
for a condom.
Take it off.
Listen, if I
give this to you,
you're gonna give it
to your daddy.
And what's he
gonna give you?
Not even a Christmas bonus.
The guy I'm
stealing this for
will give me $1 million.
If we go in partners,
we'll split 50/50.
That's half a million
hard currency.
Think of the drugs
you can buy
with that much cake.
You'll be discoing
for a decade
in Moscow, mate.
I don't need
your small change.
That's your
first problem.
Here is your second.
Microchip...please.
Freeze!
Sorry. Guns make me nervous.
Suck me...sideways.
(GRUNTING)
(ALARM BLARING)
(ILYA SCREAMING)
Uh! My eyes! Oh!
(ALARM BLARING)
(ALARM CONTINUES BLARING)
(GUNSHOTS)
Give it up!
ILYA: You got
no place to go!
A god damn button!
(PAD RUSTLING)
(ALARM BLARING)
Back of the building!
Come on!
Where is the body?
No body.
Just some guy
in rags.
(CROWD CHANTING)
(ROCK AND ROLL PLAYING)
NEWS ANCHOR:
As the bitter chill
of winter
descends on Moscow,
Russians are warming
to the angry rhetoric
of former communist boss
Ivan Tretiak.
Now a billionaire
oil magnate
and leader
of his own
political party,
Tretiak predicted
that the civil unrest
engulfing Russia
will only worsen
unless reformist
President Karpov
can overcome
the heating oil shortage
that has already killed
scores of Russians.
In his speech today,
Tretiak called on elements
of the Russian army
who are opposed
to the elected government
to seize control and end
the heating oil crisis.
WOMAN: What beautiful work.
Ah. Cloisonné.
It is old.
(IN SPANISH ACCENT)
Yes.
It belonged
to my grandmother.
Please.
Tonight I feel like
the oldest person
on this plane.
My husband,
he's sending me
to England to live
until things change.
You are married
not even a year,
and already this bastard
has a girlfriend?
I am sorry.
It's not my business.
How come you know
so much about me?
It is a gift.
I'm Martin de Porres.
I am from Spain,
but I'm named
for a Peruvian saint
who could cure the sick
or the injured
by the laying of hands.
TEAL: Hmm.
He's the same build
as the description
the Russians gave us,
but he doesn't
sound like an Aussie.
WOMAN: No.
Could be faking it.
X-rays are clear.
He hasn't swallowed
the microchip.
Anything?
You English
with your chips,
your fish and chips.
On the airplane,
I have the chicken.
Van Gogh theft,
Netherlands.
Last year. Same eyes.
TEAL: Different chin.
DRIVER:
Halcyon Hotel, guv.
(DREAMING)
FATHER BRENNAN:
Stand up!
What is your name?
Answer the question!
(ECHOING)
What is your name? Hey!
MAN ON TELEPHONE:
Hey, Lou,
the microchip arrived.
I put the dough
in your Swiss account.
Sorry I didn't
get back to you about
that diamond thing,
but Moscow's like
Dodge City right now.
All them greedy commies
have turned into
crazy capitalists.
It's disgusting.
It's made them sloppy.
One or two more
easy scores
like this last one,
I top 50 mil,
I'm out of the game.
Yeah,
I heard that before.
Not from me.
I don't know nuttin'.
You don't believe me?
Try and find me.
Fuck you, Lou.
See youse.
Just can't seem
to break 50.
(IN GERMAN ACCENT)
$1 million U.S. dollars,
nonrefundable,
reserves you a quiet table
at a romantic little spot
in Berlin
called Tempelhof,
which has
a cozy transit lounge.
To get inside,
you walk through
the metal detectors,
and I walk through
the metal detectors.
And since you know
I'm not armed,
and I know
you're not armed,
we can both fall in love
and nobody gets hurt.
ILYA: I can't see him.
Then look for him.
TEMPLAR: (IN GERMAN ACCENT)
You have a long
and beautiful cane...
...along with
your beautiful eyes.
That photograph
doesn't do you justice.
Who are you?
My name is
Bruno Hautenfaust.
I was named for a saint
who was a very
wealthy man.
Had the wine,
the women, the songs,
the whole bit,
and then inexplicably
took a vow of poverty
and became a hermit,
went off to live
in the forest
in the nude.
Please leave.
I represent
the professional
you hired.
I'm his
business manager.
I speak for him.
We don't deal
with underlings.
Come on, Father.
Let's go.
TRETIAK:
Wait. Sit down.
Listen and learn.
Ah. Youth.
Who runs this thief?
CIA, MI-6, Libya?
He's not a race car.
Nobody runs him.
He's an independent
contractor.
Good. Then no one
will mind if I kill him.
Oh, yes.
I can have a man killed
and stroll away like that,
even with metal detectors,
even in this transit lounge.
(YAWNS)
Oh, it's so early.
You guys wanna get some
coffee or something?
Sure.
Be quiet.
TEMPLAR: What is it
you request of my employer?
Do you know
what cold fusion is?
Of course.
It's the theory
of nuclear fusion
at room temperature.
Free energy forever.
Yes.
Kaffee?
Klein, bitte.
As far as
science goes, it ranks
just above astrology.
Those who claim
to have achieved
the experiment
have never been able
to duplicate it.
Until now.
TRETIAK: There is
an electro-chemist
working at Oxford.
We believe
that this good lady
made a breakthrough
in cold fusion.
Your employer will obtain
the formula for me.
He's very busy.
And you are
very boring.
Your offer
must inspire him.
This woman has repeatedly
avoided my agents' attempts
to find the formula.
She's cagey, difficult.
Maybe your agents
are stupid.
I think this information
would cost you $3 million.
(CHUCKLES)
Ridiculous.
TEMPLAR: Why? You will have
the world market in energy.
Cost you a nickel
for every million you make.
His deposit
should go...
Hey...
It is not for me.
It is for Mother Russia.
But you want
Mother Russia, too,
Mr. Tretiak.
Three million on deposit
in a bank account
in Zurich. Agreed?
Yes.
And, uh, how long to get
your employer's agreement?
I'll ask.
Your offer
has inspired her.
I'll do it.
Bank account number
in Zurich.
Auf wiedersehen.
Bye, sonny.
TRETIAK: Bye-bye.
I really love this guy.
(CHUCKLES)
Too bad
we have to kill him.
Yeah, too bad.
WOMAN:
When the electrochemists
Pons and Fleischman
announced in 1989
that they had discovered
cold fusion,
a revolutionary process
of generating energy,
they were at first
acclaimed as geniuses
and then condemned
as charlatans.
The protocols
of cold fusion...
What are those? Drugs?
Could I have one?
My head's pounding.
She's boring
the life out of me.
They're for my heart.
Oh.
You have
very pretty eyes.
You're a pretty lady.
Who are you?
Me?
I'm here to do
an interview
with that Dr. Russell.
I'm gonna expose her
as a fraud.
You don't put any stock
in this cold fusion
mumbo jumbo, do you?
Actually, I do.
Really?
Dr. Emma Russell.
Oops.
Well...
I didn't prepare
any formal remarks.
Um, I'm actually
more interested
in what questions
you all have
about cold fusion,
so I thought we would
start with those.
EMMA: Any questions?
Please?
Yeah. Yeah, I have,
Dr. Russell.
Can you explain
the actual process
of fusion?
You know, the theory.
Yes. Oh, there it is.
This is the...
The apparatus.
And very simply,
when positively charged
deuterons
are attracted
to the palladium cathode,
they cram together,
and there are millions
and millions of them
inside the cathode,
getting closer
and closer,
and then they fuse,
and they create energy
in the form of helium.
But I read somewhere
that the experiment
couldn't be replicated,
so how do we know
it works?
Well, we don't.
Not yet.
But if you
remember Einstein,
he knew the theory
of relativity to be true
long before
he could prove it.
I mean,
he felt the truth.
And, uh, some of us
feel the same way
about cold fusion
because it's there.
It's in nature.
The raw, natural power
just waiting
to be harnessed.
And when we ignite
that cold fusion fire,
I mean, just imagine.
There's more energy
in one cubic mile
of sea water
than in all the known
oil reserves on earth.
I mean, you could
drive your car
55 million miles
on a gallon
of heavy water.
It would be
the end of pollution.
Warmth for
the whole world.
So why don't I, uh,
demonstrate for you
why other people
in the past have been
so unsuccessful.
They used very complex...
TEMPLAR:
November 17th,
11:30 a.m.
entering flat of
Dr. Emma Russell.
High Street, Oxford.
No alarms
on outer doors.
Strange.
TAPE: No messages.
Shelley monument.
Entering bathroom.
Books.
More books.
Walls covered with
reminder notes.
Poetry.
(CLICK)
Ah! Dad.
"Stop and talk to Shelley
every day.
"How can I love
a man named Percy?
"Isn't there someone
in the world who can
consume me like that?
"Magic. Romantic."
No recent applications.
Cold fusion notes.
"Although I pass
the Shelley monument
every day,
"its sadness strikes me
every time.
"For some reason, I feel
a very personal loss
when I look at it.
"So much pain
and so much passion."
"To give light to them
that sit in darkness
and in the shadow of death.
Luke 1; verse 79."
Tretiak's wrong.
She's not cagey.
She's not difficult.
She's just...
Eccentric.
She's innocent.
Maybe it's in her head.
She needs a poet.
An artist.
Someone who
understands truth.
She needs Thomas More.
(IN SOUTH AFRICAN ACCENT)
Do you like it?
What?
The sculpture.
Do you like it?
Oh...yes.
What do you love
about it?
The way it...glows.
And how the light...
...holds him in silence,
taking care of him.
Yeah, that's what
I like about it.
Are you an artist?
No, just a traveler,
searching for purity.
What do you search for?
Energy.
Yes.
Have you ever been
on a long journey?
No, not really.
Perhaps I'll take you
to my home in Africa.
You should experience
the energy of
where all life began.
Sorry. I'm not
very good with people.
Me, neither.
EMMA: "I see my angel
for the first time.
"Know my purpose,
feel my birth.
"Hear at first faintly,
then distinctly...
"The sweet strains
of our union...
"...Our love heats up
the cold universe,
"and gives my tired
desperate heart..."
TEMPLAR: "...Purified
by our kisses,
are eternally healed."
Do you like it?
Who did you
write it for?
You.
You're following me
or it's destiny.
Either way, it's weird.
Very weird.
Destiny then.
(BOTH LAUGHING)
This must
look strange.
It's, uh...
Something that I'm
working on...
...a formula for...
Creating energy.
That you carry around
in your underwear?
(CHUCKLES) Yeah, I do.
How did you do that?
Magic.
Give it back.
It looks like Sanskrit.
I'm sorry. I just wanted
to watch you put it away.
What else do you
keep in there?
Nothing.
That's not true.
Can I get you
anything else?
Drink your wine.
Uh, Latour '57.
The Latour, sir,
is 400 pounds a bottle.
Then we'll have
two bottles.
There. You count it.
All these little tubes
and microbes and things.
Molecules?
Those, too.
Even better.
(LAUGHS)
Can I tell you
something?
What? You must.
Everything.
(WHISPERING)
It's a secret.
What is it?
I'm done.
My energy research...
I'm finished.
I mean, I still have
some sequencing that
I have to work out
to make sure that
it's safe, but I did it.
It's just been you
against the whole world,
hasn't it?
How have you done it
and stayed so positive?
The gift of faith.
To see...
Well...
To believe in something
that's all around us...
But hidden
from our sight.
That's a beautiful thought.
I can't believe
I'm telling you
all this.
I don't even know
your name.
Well, my name is...
I don't want to
tell you my name.
I don't want to do that.
What difference
does it make?
What's your name?
Emma.
Emma. Now I know
everything about you.
Your...genius.
You have a weak heart.
You have beautiful dreams,
great courage.
You're not afraid
in this world.
You get that
from your father.
You can't cook
to save your life.
And you love fish.
I do love fish.
That's weird.
I want to try that.
No.
Yes.
No, I don't want you to.
Drink your wine.
Yes, I do.
What's your name?
My name is Thomas More.
I was named
after a saint
who died for his faith.
Okay.
Your work
is very dangerous...
...and alive.
And I love your poems.
They move me.
But that's not
who you really are.
You're running away
from your past...
Your pain.
And yet you keep it
so close to you.
So you don't have
to be afraid
of who you are...
Because you're beautiful.
What are you doing?
(GRUNTS)
Oh, my God, you're...
You're bleeding.
What happened?
Don't know. I was...
Weeping and I slipped.
I was thinking of you.
I don't know.
Well, I...
I live right down
the street.
I could clean you up.
Why do you
cover your mouth
when you laugh?
I don't know.
Wait.
I'm glad that
it stopped bleeding.
You don't
need stitches.
(GLASS CLATTERS)
(LAUGHS)
We're going to have
to disinfect it, though.
You really are an angel.
You are.
This is going to hurt.
Ahhh!
(SCREAMS)
(LAUGHS) Oh, sorry.
I'm sorry.
Are you all right?
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I was just joking.
I... I should go.
Oh, no.
Yes. You... You... I...
Take off your pants.
Pardon?
I mean, your sweater.
There's blood on it.
I'll wash it.
Very domestic.
There's blood
on your blouse as well.
I'll wash it.
Do you have any wine?
Um, I'm so overwhelmed
that you even noticed me.
How could I not?
You make me feel
so good.
I wish you...
I wish you
could understand.
I want you to know
who I am.
Oh, my heart.
Don't disappear.
I'll be right back.
* Calm me down
* Break it round
* Too way high off
your street
* I can see
* Like nothing else
* In me you're better
than I wanna be
(SIGHS)
* Don't think
'cause I understand
* I care
* Don't think,
'cause I'm talking
Oh, I can't do this.
She's so great.
I can't believe
this is happening.
Hi.
* Overground
* Watch this space
* I'm open
* To falling from grace
ILYA: "To, Spider:
"Must fly.
Have better offer."
Greedy westerner.
Wants more money.
Who cares? Can't spend
hard currency in hell.
Send this message:
"Fly, don't buzz off.
"I'll double your fee.
"Or send my own
boys to take care
of the woman."
You okay?
Let's... Let's just...
Lie here.
Can't we just
be like this tonight?
Is that what you want?
It's so magic.
Hmm.
It just feels so perfect.
(BEEPING)
MAN ON RADIO:
It's 7:00 a.m. And here are
the news headlines...
Thomas?
(SHUTTER CLICKS)
(COMPUTER BEEPS)
Lev Naumovitch,
it's here!
Good man!
It's revolutionary, sir!
She's boldly cast aside
a slew of stale ideas.
But I think the formula
is incomplete.
It will take months...
But that won't do!
Because now that
the people are nicely
beginning to freeze,
Tretiak must sweep in
from the wings
with a miracle
to save them.
How high
do you want it,
Mr. Tretiak?
To the top.
Good morning, Yuri.
Good morning.
Perhaps they can confirm
the validity of this formula
more quickly
if I dispense
with certain protocols.
But, Mr. Tretiak...
How long, Dr. Botvin,
since you received
your last salary check
from Moscow university?
Ukrainian Independence Day.
Last august.
(BEEPING)
Ivan... He's online.
Do it.
To spider...
You've got the recipe.
"Where's my dough?"
To human fly:
Recipe incomplete.
TRETIAK:
The cake won't rise.
Hence, no dough.
I am not the baker.
YURI: But don't make me
the butcher.
(CHUCKLES)
I like this guy.
No play, no pay.
TRETIAK:
I'm certain you kept
the cookbook.
Holland Park.
RECEPTIONIST:
I'll check that for you.
Yes, that seems
to be fine.
One moment.
(GUNSHOT)
Ah!
He's keeping me online.
You wait here.
(DISTANT SIREN WAILING)
(SIRENS BLARING)
(BEEPING)
You, beside the car.
Now, turn around.
Step away
from the vehicle.
He's armed.
(TIRES SQUEALING)
ILYA: Come on, drive!
Go the other way.
Go, go, go!
(ROCK AND ROLL
PALYING ON RADIO)
TEAL: What about him?
Hmm...
TEAL: What about
this one?
Yeah.
That...
You see,
we believe they're all
the same villain.
Oh, my God.
They're all him?
We believe so.
He eluded a hit squad
this morning
in Holland Park.
Then he fled the U.K.
out of Heathrow.
We've got a handful
of false identities
used on visas,
passports, leases.
Nicholas Owen,
Louis Guanella,
Peter Damian,
Charles Borroneo.
Of course.
Thomas More.
All the names
of catholic saints.
Can you access Heathrow's
passenger lists
for the last,
uh, eight hours?
I think it might
be possible.
Good.
(BELL RINGS)
(CROWD CHEERING)
Go!
Come on, now!
(GLASS SHATTERS)
Yeah!
(BAND PLAYING
DRUM ROLL)
Oh, yeah.
(CROWD CHEERING)
(SINGING IN RUSSIAN)
Yes!
(SINGING CONTINUES)
Oh! (LAUGHS)
See, my friends,
you back
the biggest rats.
(WOMAN TALKING INDISTINCTLY)
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
(LAUGHS)
(ALL LAUGH)
(SINGING IN RUSSIAN)
Hello.
TRETIAK: Out, out.
Freeloaders, out.
TRETIAK: I want
to drink alone.
Close the curtain.
(DIALING)
(INHALES)
BOTH: What?
Don't look down.
You know who I am?
No.
I'm the thief,
you tried to cheat.
And this, your accountant.
(CHEERING IN NEXT ROOM)
Talk to him.
The phone goes
the other way,
you moron.
Hello.
Tretiak speaking.
(MAN TALKING INDISTINCTLY
OVER THE PHONE)
That money
to Zurich.
Send it now.
I said now.
Yeah.
Thank you.
You know what
the hardest part
about being you is?
Pretending to be
so bad in bed.
You son of the bitch.
ILYA: There is
an impostor in there.
Get him out.
TRETIAK: Hey, hey, hey!
Take your hands
off me, you idiots.
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
Are you crazy?
It's me.
Go, go!
Catch him, go!
TRETIAK: Ilya,
get the bastard!
(SIREN WAILING IN DISTANCE)
(RADIO DISPATCHER
SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
(BEEPS)
TEMPLAR: Fifty million.
I'm out.
Mr. Ferrer
checking out.
Okay.
(SPEAKS RUSSIAN)
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
EMMA: I'll have one, too.
SIMON: Emma.
Hi.
I'm...
I'm overwhelmed.
You found me.
Wasn't very hard.
Two men with
saint's names flew into
Moscow yesterday.
Isadore Bakanja
is a short,
bald African,
whereas Vincent Ferrer...
Was named after
a saint who betrayed
his best friend.
How could you do it?
Emma...
(STAMMERING)
I had to.
I'm a thief.
I want my cards back.
You flew all this way
because you want
your cards back?
Yes, I did.
No.
It's because
you're in love.
I rest my case.
Who are you?
No one has a clue,
least of all me.
And why would
you steal cold fusion?
It's free.
Why would you do that?
(BARTENDER
SPEAKS RUSSIAN)
Eight million reasons.
Oh, eight million.
Wow, that's all?
I would have
given them to you.
If you'd only asked.
You've got to
get away from me.
I'm not going anywhere
until you tell me
why you lied to me.
You lied to me.
(SCOFFS)
I lied to you?
You almost
got me killed.
The guy I stole
the stuff for says
it doesn't work.
Well, screw him.
I don't think
you'd enjoy that.
Yeah, you're right.
I don't think I would.
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
Emma.
You don't know what
you're dealing with here.
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
What?
Why are you...
They took my pills.
No, they didn't.
I palmed them
from your purse.
I need one or two.
I need...
I have a bad heart,
and...
I know.
It's starting
to pound.
It's okay.
I've got your pills.
Okay, I've got
two in my hand.
Just...
I'm gonna pass out.
Sit down
on the floor.
Just get down
That's right.
Eat two out of my hand.
Mmm.
Okay?
(SIGHS)
While you're down there...
Get the pocket knife
out of my boot.
This formula makes
certain assumptions
which contradict
all we know about
cold fusion cathodes.
(SIREN WAILING)
BOTVIN: So testing
at any level becomes futile
without further
information.
BOTVIN: Mr. Tretiak.
Don't despair,
Dr. Botvin.
Help is here.
(TIRES SQUEAL)
The two came
very quietly.
Oh.
(EXCLAIMS)
And they left
even more quietly.
(GROANS)
Close the city.
Kill him,
and bring her.
Alive.
(SIREN WAILING)
(EXHALES)
(SIGHS)
Why... Why are they
after me?
Tretiak,
the guy I work for,
he owns this city,
cops and all.
We have to convince him
there's nothing more
he wants from you.
What do you want
from me?
(MEN TALKING INDISTINCTLY)
Everything's
on those cards?
Yes.
TEMPLAR: So the formula works?
Oh, kiss me again.
(TALKING CONTINUES)
No.
Make up your mind.
(STUTTERING) Oh, it's, uh,
I have to figure
out the order
before the
formula works,
and I'm not gonna
give it to him.
Tretiak will find you.
No.
He found me,
and that's a very
hard thing to do.
I found you.
Yes, you did.
What do you need?
I need some time,
and I need...
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
I need a place
to work,
and...
EMMA: Where's
everyone going?
To their country relatives
to cut firewood.
SIMON: There's no heat
in the city.
(DIALING)
(ROCK MUSIC PLAYING)
How long will it
take you to finish
the formula?
I don't know.
Uh, two hours,
maybe.
(SIGHS)
I don't know.
Should be enough time
to get our
passports together,
and for us
to get married.
We're getting
married?
Yes.
I want you to be
Mrs. Martin de Porres.
You're not Martin.
No.
Who are you?
(DOOR CLUTTERING)
I don't have a name.
That's sad.
Will you have a name
when we get home?
I don't have a home.
When we get back,
you do the science,
I'll do the math.
We'll market your formula
around the world.
We'll make a fortune,
and then...
We'll see.
Okay?
(BELL DINGS)
Emma!
(HORN HONKING)
(TIRES SCREECH)
Oh!
(SCREAMS)
No trouble, okay?
(GRUNTING)
If you want to live,
never leave my side.
(PANTING)
Oh!
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
(TIRES SQUEAL)
(SHUDDERS)
(GRUNTING)
I've got you.
EMMA: Come on.
Here we go. Up.
(GASPS)
Oh, we've gotta
get you warm.
(BOTH GASPING)
We're almost there.
(TIRES SCREECH)
(WINGS FLAPPING)
EMMA: Oh, come on.
Come on.
(GASPS)
(KEYS JANGLE)
You'll wait till Christ
comes to Moscow.
Elevator was made
of mahogany.
Tenants use it
for firewood
last winter.
We need your help.
He fell in the river,
and he's freezing.
(MUMBLING)
Need clothes.
We're just people
who were...
You're not people.
You're Americans.
Yes, but we ran
into trouble
with your mafia.
(TIRES SCREECH)
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
She disapproves
of what I do,
but eats the bread
it buys her.
No heat for sale,
but these clothes
will make him warm.
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
I tell her, Mashenka,
go back to bed.
She's always
puttering around.
It's here.
Built to escape
secret police.
In you go.
You've got hypothermia.
We have to get
these wet clothes off,
and keep you warm.
They must be in one
of these buildings.
Check every
apartment.
How you doing?
Talk to me.
Snug as a bug in a rug.
(TEMPLAR MUMBLING)
Okay.
We're gonna...
We're gonna
have to do this
before your body
temperature falls
below 95 degrees.
(SHIVERING)
Two kids,
talking about foreigners.
(GUN CLICKS)
(BELL RINGS)
Listen to me, tenants!
(BABBLING)
Show me where
the Americans are,
and you'll be paid
in American dollars.
Five hundred
bucks reward.
Daddy?
Have you seen,
by chance,
two Americans?
Just one American
and one polar bear.
(WOMAN LAUGHS)
Do we get 250?
(GUNSHOT)
(WOMAN SCREAMS)
(WOMAN SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
ILYA: We check upstairs.
(DOOR CLOSES)
What's your name?
Who are you, really?
Simon.
Simon?
So you are named
for a saint.
No, Simon
the magician.
I did tricks.
Tricks for Agnes,
and that's how
I got things.
Priests took everything.
Took Agnes.
Dogs too big.
Teeth.
She fell.
I escaped.
I always escape.
I don't believe
in magic anymore.
I do.
I've never felt
like this before.
How?
I'm freezing.
(CHUCKLES)
These are here!
WOMAN: These Americans
are here!
These are here!
We've got to
get out of here.
Are you okay?
They're coming.
WOMAN: Americans are here!
EMMA: Hurry.
Here, put this on.
Ilya!
(SIREN WAILING)
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
Upstairs, go!
(MEN SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
Maybe we can jump.
Let's jump.
(MEN TALKING INDISTINCTLY)
Come on!
Wait.
(GROANS)
We need her alive,
idiot.
Embassy's east of here.
(ARGUING IN RUSSIAN)
WOMAN: You're late.
Where have you been?
I've been waiting
two hours.
Come on.
I've got some
beautiful paintings
for you to buy.
In here.
Come on,
come on.
Don't fret. It's just
my curator, Toli.
I am Alexa Frankievitch...
(DOOR SHUTS)
...but being you're
Americans, you can
call me Frankie, okay?
Okay, Frankie.
I've got money.
We want...
I know.
The icon of the virgin
of the damned.
Are those maps
of the tunnels?
FRANKIE: Yes.
TEMPLAR:
We're not here
to buy art.
Just take us to
the American Embassy.
Right. I need
$10,000 up front, huh?
No.
FRANKIE: Okay.
Seven thousand
and not a penny less.
TOLI: Shh.
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(WHISPERING)
Police.
TEMPLAR: No.
Tretiak's goons.
Wait.
TOLI: Sasha, go east
to the Embassy.
Are we lost?
What's wrong?
You're in Russia, sir.
Everything
is complicated.
But you know
the way?
Like the face
of a...
Bulgari chronograph.
Mmm.
I remember.
This way.
FRANKIE: At last,
water main.
They shut it down
each afternoon
in winter.
TEMPLAR: What time do
they turn it back on?
FRANKIE:
You have five minutes,
plus or minus.
EMMA: Plus or minus?
That means several minutes
earlier or late.
FRANKIE: Don't worry.
Third opening is under
your embassy.
(HINGES SQUEAKING)
Quick.
Someone's coming.
Come on.
Here's the second one.
Embassy's next.
About two more minutes.
Yeah, unless
it's minus.
Damn.
TEMPLAR: It's sealed.
We'll have to go back.
EMMA: Come on.
(GASPS)
(GRUNTS)
Hurry.
TEMPLAR: Up you go.
MAN: Yankee, go home!
Down with Yankee!
(CROWD CHANTING
IN RUSSIAN)
Embassy's only about
a hundred yards away.
There's a car
right above us.
Watch your head.
(AIR HISSING)
(CROWD CHANTING
IN RUSSIAN)
I'll create a diversion.
It should take you
only about 10 seconds
to run to those gates.
They'll open them when
they see you coming.
Okay.
I can do that.
You can do it.
Wait.
When am I
gonna see you?
I'll find you.
You found me.
Yeah, I did.
(GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(SCREAMING)
EMMA: I'm an American!
Open the gate!
I'm an American!
GUARD: Back off
from the gate.
Back off.
I said back off.
Stand back
from the gate.
I said back off!
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
TEMPLAR: She outran you?
How humiliating.
(GROANS)
One...
(SPITS)
Shot left.
(GUN CLICKS)
Can't come all
the way to Russia
and not play
Russian roulette.
(GUN WHIRS)
Before you shoot me,
don't you want to know
where all the money's hidden?
(GUN CLICKS)
Whose money?
Tretiak's, yours.
He treats you like dirt.
You could have it all.
What are you saying?
I'm saying your father
stashed billions,
and I know
where it's hidden.
Let's make a deal.
(CLICKS)
So...
Where are all those
hidden billions?
I know...
But I don't think
I'm going to tell you.
(SCREAMS)
(GROANING)
(PEOPLE SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY)
(SIRENS WAILING)
MAN: Joseph,
what's the holdup?
I said get 'em inside!
DOCTOR: Well, you're worse
than all the others,
however burns will heal.
Maybe a little chance
of scarring, perhaps,
but all in all I'd say
he's a very lucky boy.
Lucky?
Look at me.
I am a damn devil.
(SCOFFS)
Christ.
(MUMBLING)
Yes?
I have run
every test
on this
cold fusion formula
and must conclude
that it is not
merely incomplete,
but, rather,
impossible.
You may as well
try to create
perpetual motion,
Mr. Tretiak.
I invest millions...
And you can't
make it work!
What are you doing
with my money?
Do you think
it comes so easy?
No!
But, sir,
I have been working
for nearly two weeks
without sleep.
At first blush,
the theorem appears
quite impressive.
Convincing.
It does?
Yes.
It does.
Good man.
We can use it
to destroy our enemies.
TRETIAK: Only Dr. Russell
can spoil my plan.
If she gets back to London
and speaks to the press...
From here to the airport
are three
army checkpoints,
all of them
loyal to us.
Make certain they all
get the message
she doesn't
leave Moscow alive.
TRETIAK: Mr. President.
As former vice minister
of energy and power,
I hear all manner
of schemes that provide
cheaper energy,
and, uh,
as our countrymen
freeze to death,
I've become aware
of a marvelous
new technology,
about which
I'm hopelessly
out of my league
from a scientific
viewpoint.
That's why
I brought our eminent
physicist here,
Dr. Lev Botvin from
the University of Moscow.
Before we are dazzled
by the good news,
let's dispense
with the bad.
What is the price
of this marvel?
The cost for research
and development
are there,
which is all
you are asked
to decide.
Ten billion
in hard currency?
I can't even pay
my teachers,
my miners,
my doctors.
Where are you heading?
I thought
we'd drink some vodka
to get warmer.
Like the miracle
of socialism,
our miracle
of cold fusion failed.
But no matter.
We have sold
cold fusion to
President Karpov.
We will use the scandal
of its failure
to destroy him.
The army must be mobilized
by midnight tomorrow.
You're a man in a hurry,
Ivan Petrovich.
That's only one day.
Not now, old witch.
We're working.
TRETIAK:
Yes. Think of it.
One day,
you can be
proud again
to be a Russian general.
With a big nuclear missile
where your prick
used to be.
You just have to
fill out a form
before we put you
on a flight home.
Okay.
Any medical problems,
that sort of thing.
EMMA: Oh. I have
a heart condition.
Well, do you need me
to arrange any
medication for you?
Uh...
Well, I haven't needed
a pill...
That's strange.
Get a form
from table three
down the corridor.
I'll be back
in 10 minutes,
by your side,
all the way
to the airport.
Thank you.
FEMALE REPORTER:
Across the street
in Central Moscow,
where overnight,
a mob attacked
several companies
with ties to America.
Apparently, four U.S. citizens
were badly injured
in the attack.
I'm told that
all American citizens
have been asked to report
to the American Embassy
for immediate evacuation.
MAN:
Excuse me, little lady.
You look lost.
No, I'm, uh,
I'm fine.
May I help you?
Allow me to
introduce myself.
My name is
August Christopher.
I was named after
Saint Augustine,
who coined
my favorite phrase.
Give me chastity
and give me constancy,
but do not give it yet.
(LAUGHING)
(PROTESTERS CHANTING
IN RUSSIAN)
Simon, I'm...
I'm on the next flight
out of here.
Are you coming
with me?
No.
But they are.
(CHANTING CONTINUES)
I'll need you
to develop a sudden
fear of flying.
Find a quiet room,
finish the formula,
and fax it back to me.
My number's on
the back.
I don't understand.
Why are you
keeping my cards?
I've got to do a deal
with the Russians,
or you'll never be safe.
Be good at school.
Wait.
Don't you trust me,
darling?
Trust who?
That hurts, Emma.
I'm serious.
What's your name?
My name is
August Christopher.
Of course,
I trust you,
August Christopher.
I mean,
Vincent Ferrer...
Martin de Porres...
Thomas More.
After all, you are
my personal saint.
You have to
be a very good,
and usually,
a very dead person
to become a saint.
And more importantly,
you have to work
three miracles.
Now, get to work.
Who's that man?
MAN: You're leaving
on the transport
at nine o'clock, ma'am?
Probably be
your last chance
out of here.
Better hurry.
It's leaving.
VERESHAGIN: Your troops
will depose the president
and install Ivan Tretiak
as leader of Russia.
TRETIAK: Moscow must
be ringed with tanks
by early evening.
Don't worry,
the people
will follow me.
They will be crying
for revolution.
VERESHAGIN:
Still, no one's guessed
the simple truth
of where
the heating oil went.
(ALL LAUGHING)
TRETIAK: Who would believe
that a sea of oil
(COMPUTER BEEPING)
was hidden under
this very building?
(ALL LAUGHING)
MAN: Yuri, I understand
your Nataly is to...
WOMAN:
Francis, you devil,
I heard you
came down here,
and you didn't call me.
Hello, Dominic.
Give me a ring
when you get this,
Charles.
Lou,
I've heard
on the grapevine
that you're brokering
a revolutionary
new energy source.
If it's as good as
it's cracked up to be,
I have friends
who can double
your best offer,
on deposit in Zurich
within one hour
of delivery
and confirmation.
I'll be waiting.
(WHIRRING)
(DOOR OPENS)
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
The work could be here.
This machine could work,
couldn't it?
(ALARM WAILING)
(GUARDS SHOUTING
IN RUSSIAN)
Who are you?
A friend
of Dr. Russell's.
Dr. Russell...
BOTVIN: What is this equation?
It's so simple. It's...
This is the key to
Dr. Russell's formula.
Yes.
(GUARDS SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
The alarm.
You had better go.
I need a miracle.
You've got 12 hours.
But Mr. Tretiak's
rally is tonight.
Can you make it work?
Make it work.
(ALARM WAILING)
What is wrong here?
Uh, the alarm...
(SCOFFS) Uh...
I tripped. I...
(WOMAN SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
(RUSSIAN ACCENT)
You are Nikolai Petrovich.
You are
Nikolai Provovich...
Petrovich.
(DOORBELL BUZZES)
Tunnel built by KGB...
FRANKIE:
Leads to machine room
in Kremlin.
Great. Do you
happen to know
where the president's
quarters are?
President Karpov is...
There, but there are
many guards,
so I suggest...
An alternate route?
Money. Now.
Oh, ye
of little faith.
FEMALE REPORTER:
Russia stands tonight
on the brink
of a second revolution.
As the number of deaths
from freezing mounts,
hundreds of thousands
of protesters
have taken to the streets.
Even as Russian
President Karpov
is promising
a mysterious solution
to the crippling
heating oil shortage,
troops opposed
to the elected government
and led by
General Leo Sklarov
have begun to ring
the Russian capital city.
Angry, frightened citizens
are gathering outside
the Kremlin in Red Square,
but they're not braving
the bitter cold for yet
another political rally.
They've been
drawn here
by the promise
of a revelation,
whatever that may be,
in what's become
a life-and-death struggle
for the future
of democracy in Russia.
(PROTESTERS SHOUTING
INDISTINCTLY)
(BRAKES SQUEAL)
(DOOR SHUTS)
(MUFFLED GROANING)
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
(GROANS)
(GUNSHOTS)
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
Mr. President?
I'm your friend.
What do you want?
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
I want to help you
to destroy Tretiak.
I need you to listen
for about 30 seconds.
I'm all right.
Stay outside.
Please, continue.
Tonight you're going
to stand trial in Red Square
before the world.
Whatever Tretiak
accuses you of,
I need you
to admit to it.
Agree with
this criminal?
If you want to
destroy Tretiak,
yes.
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
Gruschev,
take Mr. Karpov
downstairs.
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
The wife stays here.
Get your hands off!
What you are doing
is illegal!
The people
won't stand for it!
are too cold to stop it.
Who are you?
(DOOR SQUEAKS OPEN)
CROWD: (CHANTING)
Tretiak! Tretiak! Tretiak!
(WHISPERING)
(CHANTING CONTINUES)
(CROWD CHEERING)
(ECHOING)
Friends...
Countrymen...
Russians!
(CROWD CHEERING)
You heard about
this morning's
sensational events.
Many shocking documents
were recovered
from the president's
secret files,
locked within
his private safe.
The documents...
(CROWD BOOING)
Which will be published
in today's papers,
prove
that the traitor Karpov
was about to steal
over 40 trillion
of our precious
Russian rubles,
in a reckless scheme
to save his hide!
To add insult,
millions of dollars
were to be paid
to these
international criminals!
TRETIAK:
And for what was
your president
hoping to bankrupt
our national treasury?
What you see
is a fairy tale
called cold fusion.
You pass electric current
into the machine,
and there is supposed to
be a chemical reaction.
Watch!
(BEEP)
It can't even light up
a tiny light bulb!
Do you dare deny this,
Mr. Karpov?
Absolutely not!
I proudly admit it.
TRETIAK:
But enough puny failure.
Failure is in the past!
(CRACKLES)
Begging is behind us!
The balance of power
is about to shift!
(CROWD CHEERING)
Miracle one.
(SPEAKING RUSSIAN)
CROWD: (CHANTING)
Karpov! Karpov!
Ilya! Ilya!
Go! Go!
Go, go, go!
I order all troops loyal
to Mother Russia
to seize
the criminal Tretiak!
A thousand apologies,
Mr. President.
There was
a miscommunication
somewhere in
the chain of command.
Miracle Two.
FEMALE REPORTER:
The billionaire industrialist
and his son Ilya
were taken
to the infamous
Lubyanka prison
where they await trial
along with fellow conspirator
General Leo Sklarov.
Moscow woke today
to the forgotten
sensation of warmth
as millions of gallons
of heating oil flowed
from a storage depot
discovered beneath
Tretiak's riverside mansion.
TEAL: And he made
no threat to contact
you in the future?
EMMA: He never had
the chance.
You'll tell us if
he does make contact?
Oh, yes.
Which he may well do.
He's a proper rogue,
you see.
He charms women,
this so-called saint.
It seems
it's his stock in trade.
No offense.
Well, I am offended.
All I got from this saint
was a series of
near-death experiences.
Well, count
yourself lucky.
Look, I have a very
important conference
that I must prepare for.
We understand.
You have a life.
We appreciate you
taking the time.
Oh, no problem.
She's in love with him.
(CHUCKLES)
I wanted to call you
and tell you everything.
It just hasn't
been safe.
Oh, I couldn't stop
thinking about you.
(CHUCKLES)
So...
Have you, uh...
Been busy?
(CHUCKLES) Yeah.
I've been working
real hard.
Thank God,
I have my cards back.
You don't believe in
all this cold fusion
mumbo jumbo, do you?
You know,
you're a very pretty lady.
(LAUGHS)
Oh, my God.
That was you?
That's who I thought
Dr. Russell would like.
I didn't know
you were...
I thought you were
some old biddy,
not some gorgeous
soon-to-be-trillionaire.
You know you're
going to be the richest
woman in the world.
I am?
Why do you think
I'm hanging around?
Emma.
Yeah?
My life
is very strange.
I just...
I don't do
anything normal.
(STAMMERING)
I'm... I can't even...
I know.
I know you.
I know your life.
What do you want?
I want you.
For how long?
It doesn't matter.
Tell me you love me.
I love you.
Simon.
I love you, Simon.
Miracle three.
EMMA: Dear Simon,
the pin is something
I've kept for years,
God knows why.
A graduation gift
from catholic school.
But don't worry,
you don't have to wear it.
I just wanted you
to have
something of mine,
something I loved.
Simon, if sainthood
requires three miracles,
then I'd say
you've made it,
my love,
and so I hope
you'll understand.
Last night it became
clear to me what
I have to do this morning.
You see, I'm going
to give cold fusion
to the world.
It's the only way,
if we're ever
together again,
that I'll know
it's for you,
and you'll know
it's for me.
If cold fusion is free,
then you and I, Simon,
will be free, too.
Listen, if you think
giving away everything
in front of the world,
preventing us
from making
an unimaginable fortune
will accomplish
anything...
You're absolutely right.
(LAUGHING)
Simon, what are you
doing here?
There are...
There are police.
They're everywhere.
I wouldn't miss it
for the world.
EMMA: You wore the pin.
Of course.
You better go.
How am I going
to find you?
(BOTH GIGGLE)
I'll find you.
You found me.
(ALL CLAMORING)
(APPLAUSE)
CHAIRMAN: Although
our next speaker
requires no introduction
after last week's
Moscow fireworks,
uh, please
let me welcome
Dr. E.J. Russell...
Excuse me,
is this seat taken?
No.
CHAIRMAN: Dr. Russell.
You don't believe
in all this cold fusion
mumbo jumbo, do you?
EMMA: Thank you.
Good morning.
No.
Well, we all know
that cold fusion
has had a...
A difficult childhood.
Those of us
in the field
are orphans.
Bastards, at best.
But difficult childhoods,
I believe, make the most
interesting adults.
And I know that
most of you thought
that cold fusion
was an impossible dream.
I'm her biggest fan.
EMMA: Cold fusion
belongs to all of us.
I think she's a fox.
Look at that.
EMMA: Even though some
of you may feel that
its practical application
is still somewhat
speculative,
well, I've come here
today to share with you
how that dream is slowly
becoming a reality.
Yes, it may take years
to finally learn
how to harness this energy
Oh, look at the time.
Got to go.
EMMA:
and stabilize its power.
But with your help,
we can all work
towards making the...
The...
Dream of cold fusion
finally...
Come true.
(PANTING)
(GRUNTING)
Hands behind
your back!
Come on! Got you,
you slippery son
of a...
(HORNS BLARING)
What's going on here?
(ENGINE REVVING)
Damn!
MALE REPORTER: Donations
totaling three billion dollars
were made today
to the Red Cross,
the Salvation Army,
and the United Nations
Children's Fund.
The funds were wired
from the account
of jailed Russian tycoon
Ivan Tretiak.
In other
philanthropic news,
a non-profit
research foundation
has been established
to develop
cold fusion technology,
funded with
an anonymous donation
and to be headed
by Russian physicist
Dr. Lev Botvin.
The E.J. Russell foundation
is charged to develop
inexpensive...
* Light a candle
* Lay flowers
at the door
* 'Cause those
who're left behind
* Are the ones
who've gone before
* Here it comes now
* Sure as silence
follows rain
* The taste of you
upon my lips
* The fingers
in my brain
* Ever gentle
* As it kills me
where I lay
* Who am I
to resist?
* Who are you to fail?
* Got to get you
out of my mind
* But I can't escape
from the feeling
* As I try to leave
the memory behind
* Without you,
what's there
to believe in?
* Could be so sorry
* For the way it had to go
* But now I feel your presence
in a way I could not know
* And I wonder,
do you ever feel the same?
* In whispering darkness,
do you ever hear my name?
* Got to get you
out of my mind
* But I can't escape
from the feeling
* As I try to leave
the memory behind
* Without you
what's left to believe in?
* How could you dare?
* To become so real
* When you're just
a ghost in me
* And I've got to
get you out of my mind
* But I can't escape
from the feeling
* As I try
to leave the memory behind
* Without you
what's left to believe in?
* Here in the back
of my mind *